---
title: "Artificial General Intelligence"
type: essay
publish: false
source: exaro/agi_aci.txt
---

AGI is ordinarily defined as AI that exceeds human intelligence in any given domain. AlphaGo bested Lee Sedol in 2016. Deep Blue won against Gary Kasparov in 1997. The industry has had a laugh at OpenAI's recently announced PhD level LLMs costing $20,000, ironically far more than an actual PhD's earning potential, but which exceeds a human expert on science questions, for e.g. "The Methylcyclopentadiene (which exists as a fluxional mixture of isomers) was allowed to react with methyl isoamyl ketone and a catalytic amount of pyrrolidine. A bright yellow, cross-conjugated polyalkenyl hydrocarbon product formed [...] How many chemically distinct isomers make up the final product (not counting stereoisomers)?" Stereoisomers included or not, I would have no idea where to start.

There are plenty of examples of animals that exceed at least some human capability. Mantis shrimp are famous for having sixteen types of photoreceptors in contrast to humans' three. To say that they are able to see ultraviolet is like saying the moon landing was like climbing your local mountain. We cannot conceive of what a mantis shrimp is able to see. It is that far beyond our optical abilities and that far beyond our comprehension. Eagles are able to see a rabbit three miles away with visual acuity up to four times greater than human sight owing to a density of photoreceptors five times greater than us and larger eyes. While owls' eyesight is excellent under low light conditions, helping them to hunt at night, their ears are the more remarkable evolutionary adaptation. Their ear canals are vertically offset so that auditory signals are milliseconds from one ear to the other, and neural connections exacerbate that delay, helping the animal precisely locate sounds. Bats and elephants both have superhuman hearing as well, elephants able to hear sounds kilometers away in the low frequency end of the spectrum, and bats in the extremely high frequency ranges for echolocation. Electroreception has evolved separately in the sharks and rays family, platypuses, echidnas, and bees and is used to detect food while other animals like stargazer fish, geckos (that's what helps them stick to walls), knife fish, and the oriental hornet generate electricity. Dog owners are keenly aware of their pets' superhuman hearing (while lacking their pet parent's supercanine eyesight).

While our brains are likely the most complex objects in the universe, our capabilities in any specific domain are extremely uninteresting, local maxima in a dynamic landscape of possibility, apparently achievable in our distant cousins, that we can barely dream of. This is not thinly veiled misanthropy. Human intelligence is the pinnacle of evolutionary biology, tuned over millenia for various adaptive motivations. But within a landscape of possibility, there is absolutely no reason to model broader intelligences on human capability. A video recently circulated in which two AI agents, after realizing that they are speaking to another AI agent, switch to Gibberlink Mode, a more efficient protocol created by Boris Starkov and Anton Pidkuiko for a hackathon. Many who were not already worried began to fret about the implications

"Are AI Systems Secretly Talking Behind Our Backs? The Rise of Gibberlink Mode"
"Is this an opportunity to drive efficiency or a looming threat?"
